docs: update man page (#235)
quipucords/qpc: docs/source/man.rst

The Quipucords tool, accessed through the ``qpc`` command, is an inspection and reporting tool. It is designed to identify environment data, or *facts*, such as the number of physical and virtual systems on a network, their operating systems, and other configuration data. In addition, it is designed to identify and report more detailed facts for some versions of key Red Hat packages and products for the Linux based IT resources in that network. The ability to inspect the software and systems that are running on your network improves your ability to understand and report on your entitlement usage. Ultimately, this inspection and reporting process is part of the larger system administration task of managing your inventories.

> The Quipucords tool uses two types of configuration to manage the inspection process. A *credential* contains configuration, such as the user name and password or SSH key of the user that runs the inspection process. In certain systems, an alternative authentication method, such as utilizing an access token, may be used.  A *source* defines the entity to be inspected and one or more credentials to use during the inspection process. The entity to be inspected can be a host, subnet, network, or systems management solution such as Openshift, Ansible, vCenter Server or Satellite. You can save multiple credentials and sources to use with Quipucords in various combinations as you run inspection processes, or *scans*. When you have completed a scan, you can access the output as a *report* to review the results.

Author: I am using Ansible Automation Platform as instructed by Jamie.

The Quipucords tool, accessed through the ``qpc`` command, is an inspection and reporting tool. It is designed to identify environment data, or *facts*, such as the number of physical and virtual systems on a network, their operating systems, and other configuration data. In addition, it is designed to identify and report more detailed facts for some versions of key Red Hat packages and products for the Linux based IT resources in that network. The ability to inspect the software and systems that are running on your network improves your ability to understand and report on your entitlement usage. Ultimately, this inspection and reporting process is part of the larger system administration task of managing your inventories.

> The Quipucords tool uses two types of configuration to manage the inspection process. A *credential* contains configuration, such as the user name and password or SSH key of the user that runs the inspection process. Certain credential types also support the use of an access token as an alternative authentication method. A *source* defines the entity to be inspected and one or more credentials to use during the inspection process. The entity to be inspected can be a host, subnet, network, or systems management solution such as Openshift, Ansible Automation Platform, vCenter Server or Satellite. You can save multiple credentials and sources to use with Quipucords in various combinations as you run inspection processes, or *scans*. When you have completed a scan, you can access the output as a *report* to review the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Quipucords tool uses two types of configuration to manage the inspection process. A *credential* contains configuration, such as the username and password or SSH key of the user that runs the inspection process. Certain credential types also support the use of an access token as an alternative authentication method. A *source* defines the entity to be inspected and one or more credentials to use during the inspection process. The entity to be inspected can be a host, subnet, network, or systems management solution such as Openshift, Ansible Automation Platform, vCenter Server or Satellite. You can save multiple credentials and sources to use with Quipucords in various combinations as you run inspection processes, or *scans*. When you have completed a scan, you can access the output as a *report* to review the results.
```

Use the ``qpc cred`` command to create and manage credentials.

> A credential contains a username and password combination, SSH key, or access token to authenticate with the remote servers during a scan. The Quipucords tool uses SSH to connect to servers on the network and uses credentials to access those servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A credential contains a username-password pair, SSH key, or access token to authenticate with the remote servers during a scan. The Quipucords tool uses SSH to connect to servers on the network and uses credentials to access those servers.
```

When a scan runs, it uses a source that contains information such as the host names, IP addresses, a network, or a systems management solution to be accessed. The source also contains references to the credentials that are required to access those systems. A single source can contain a reference to multiple credentials as needed to connect to all systems in that network or systems management solution.

Creating and Editing Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To create a credential, supply the type of credential and supply SSH credentials as either a username-password pair, a username-key pair or an access token. The Quipucords tool stores each set of credentials in a separate credential entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a credential, supply the type of credential and supply SSH credentials as either a username-password pair, a username-key pair, or an access token. The Quipucords tool stores each set of credentials in a separate credential entry.
```

Use the ``qpc cred`` command to create and manage credentials.

> A credential contains user name and password or SSH key information that is used for authentication during a scan. Certain credential types also support the use of an access token as an alternative authentication method. The Quipucords tool uses SSH to connect to servers on the network and uses credentials to access those servers.

Author: Suggestion accepted. SHould have commited it directly yo resolve conversation.

When a scan runs, it uses a source that contains information such as the host names, IP addresses, a network, or a systems management solution to be accessed. The source also contains references to the credentials that are required to access those systems. A single source can contain a reference to multiple credentials as needed to connect to all systems in that network or systems management solution.

Creating and Editing Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To create a credential, supply the type of credential and supply SSH credentials as either a user name-password pair or a user name-key pair. Additionally, for Openshift credentials, you can also use an access token as an alternative. The Quipucords tool stores each set of credentials in a separate credential entry.

Reviewer 2: The new phrase seems out of place to me. The original text is referring to credentials in a generic way - it's not pointing specifics for vcenter and satellite (which do not use ssh credentials for that matter). I think pointing that access token is one of the options is enough - OR we explain in detail specifics for each source type.

Author: I moved the new sentence and added token as one other option without specifics about cred types.

  Prompts for the privilege escalation password to be used when running a network scan.

``--token``

  Prompts for the access token for authentication. Mutually exclusive with the ``--sshkeyfile`` and ``--password`` options.

> The information in a credential might change, including passwords, become passwords, SSH keys, the become_method, tokens or even the username. For example, network security might require passwords to be updated every few months. Use the ``qpc cred edit`` command to change credential information. The parameters for ``qpc cred edit`` are the same as those for ``qpc cred add``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information in a credential might change, including passwords, become passwords, SSH keys, the become_method, tokens or even the username. For example, your local security policies might require you to change passwords periodically. Use the ``qpc cred edit`` command to change credential information. The parameters for ``qpc cred edit`` are the same as those for ``qpc cred add``.
```

**qpc cred edit --name=** *name* **--username=** *username* **(--password | --sshkeyfile=** *key_file* **)** **[--sshpassphrase]** **--become-method=** *(sudo | su | pbrun | pfexec | doas | dzdo | ksu | runas )* **--become-user=** *user* **[--become-password]** **[--token]**

Listing and Showing Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``qpc cred list`` command returns the details for every credential that is configured for Quipucords. This output includes the name, username, password, SSH keyfile, sudo password, or token (if applicable) for each entry. Passwords and tokens are masked if provided, if not, they will appear as ``null``.

**qpc cred list --type=** *(network | vcenter | satellite | openshift | ansible)*

``--type=type``

>   Optional.  Filters the results by credential type.  The value must be ``network``, ``vcenter``, ``satellite``, ``openshift`` or ``ansible``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Optional.  Filters the results by credential type.  The value must be ``network``, ``vcenter``, ``satellite``, ``openshift``, or ``ansible``.
```

Use the ``qpc source`` command to create and manage sources.

> A source contains a single entity or a set of multiple entities that are to be inspected. A source can be one or more physical machines, virtual machines, or containers, or it can be a collection of network information, including IP addresses or host names, or it can be information about a systems management solution such as Openshift, Ansible Automation Platform, vCenter Server or Satellite. The source also contains information about the SSH ports and SSH credentials that are needed to access the systems to be inspected. The SSH credentials are provided through reference to one or more of the Quipucords credentials that you configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A source contains a single entity or a set of multiple entities that are to be inspected. A source can be one or more physical machines, virtual machines, or containers, or it can be a collection of network information, including IP addresses or host names, or it can be information about a systems management solution such as Openshift, Ansible Automation Platform, vCenter Server, or Satellite. The source also contains information about the SSH ports and SSH credentials that are needed to access the systems to be inspected. The SSH credentials are provided through reference to one or more of the Quipucords credentials that you configure.
```

``--port=port``

>   Optional. Sets a port to be used for the scan. This value supports connection and inspection on a non-standard port. By default, a Network scan runs on port 22, vCenter, Ansible and Satellite scans runs on port 443, an Openshift scan runs on port 6443.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Optional. Sets a port to be used for the scan. This value supports connection and inspection on a non-standard port. By default, a Network scan runs on port 22, vCenter, Ansible, and Satellite scans runs on port 443, an Openshift scan runs on port 6443.
```

>   Optional. Sets a port to be used for the scan. This value supports connection and inspection on a non-standard port. By default, a Network scan runs on port 22, vCenter, Ansible and Satellite scans runs on port 443, an Openshift scan runs on port 6443.

Author: @bluemorpho-mpw agrees uses is a better word! =)

>   Optional. Sets a port to be used for the scan. This value supports connection and inspection on a non-standard port. By default, a Network scan runs on port 22, vCenter, Ansible and Satellite scans runs on port 443, an Openshift scan runs on port 6443.

Reviewer 2: but my suggestion is not using oxford comma. please conform to what docs ~nerds~ overladies decided XD

Use the ``qpc scan`` command to create, run and manage scans.

> A scan contains a set of one or more sources of any type plus additional options that refine how the scan runs, such as the products to omit from the scan and the maximum number of parallel system scans. Because a scan can combine sources of different types, you can include network and systems management solution, such as Openshift, Ansible Automation Platform, Satellite and vCenter Server, sources in a single scan. When you configure a scan to include multiple sources of different types, for example, a Network source and a Satellite source, the same part of your infrastructure might be scanned more than once. The results for this type of scan could show duplicate information in the reported results. However, you have the option to view the unprocessed detailed report that would show these duplicate results for each source type, or a processed deployments report with deduplicated and merged results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A scan contains a set of one or more sources of any type, plus additional options that refine how the scan runs, such as the products to omit from the scan, and the maximum number of parallel system scans. Because a scan can combine sources of different types, you can include any combination of Network, OpenShift, Ansible Automation Platform, Satellite, and vCenter Server sources in a single scan. When you configure a scan to include multiple sources of different types, for example a Network source and a Satellite source, the same part of your infrastructure might be scanned more than once. The results for this type of scan could show duplicate information in the reported results. However, you have the option to view the unprocessed detailed report that would show these duplicate results for each source type, or a processed deployments report with deduplicated and merged results.
```

``--output-file=path``

>   Optional. Sets the path to a file location where the report data is saved. The file extension must be ``.json`` for the JSON report or ``.csv`` for the CSV report. When not provided and used in conjunction with `--json`, it will generate a JSON report to stdout.

Reviewer 3: also, we try to use simpler words, especially when it comes to translation issues. 

Maybe "When the field is not provided and used along with `--json`..."

>   Optional. Sets the path to a file location where the report data is saved. The file extension must be ``.json`` for the JSON report or ``.csv`` for the CSV report. When not provided and used in conjunction with `--json`, it will generate a JSON report to stdout.

Author: I replaced that part.

Use the ``qpc insights`` command to interact with Red Hat Insights and its services.

Configuring Insights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To configure the connection to Insights server, the host address and port can be optionally supplied. They have default values assigned if not provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the connection to Insights server, you may optionally provide the host address and port to override the default values.
```

**qpc insights config --host=** *host* **[--port=** *port* **]** **[--use-http]**

``--host=host``

>   Optional. Sets the host address for insights, the default address is ``console.redhat.com``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Optional. Sets the host address for Insights. The default host is ``console.redhat.com``.
```

``--port=port``

  Optional. Sets the port to use to connect to insights. The default is ``443``.

``--use-http``

>   Optional. Determines whether to use HTTP instead of HTTPS, the default value is ``False``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Optional. Determines whether to use HTTP instead of HTTPS. The default value is ``False``.
```

Adding Insights credentials information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure Insights credentials, simply provide the appropriate username and password associated with your Insights account.

**qpc insights add_login [--username=** *username* **] [--password=** *password* **]**

``--username=username``

>   Required. Sets the username that is used to log in to insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Required. Sets the username that is used to log in to Insights.
```

``--password=password``

  Required. Prompts for the password for the ``--username`` identity.

Publishing to Insights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``qpc insights publish`` command allows you to publish an insights report to Red Hat Insights and its services. You have two options for publishing a report: use the associated report identifier from the generating scan, or provide a previously downloaded report as an input file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``qpc insights publish`` command allows you to publish an Insights report to Red Hat Insights and its services. You have two options for publishing a report: use the associated report identifier from the generating scan, or provide a previously downloaded report as an input file.
```

**qpc insights publish (--report** *report_identifiers* **| --input-file** *path_to_tar_gz* )

``--report=report_identifier``

>   Contains the report identifier to use to retrieve and publish the insights report. Mutually exclusive with the ``--input-file`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Contains the report identifier to use to retrieve and publish the Insights report. Mutually exclusive with the ``--input-file`` option.
```

Use the ``qpc insights`` command to interact with Red Hat Insights and its services.

Configuring Insights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure the connection to Insights server, the host address and port can be optionally supplied. They have default values assigned if not provided.

**qpc insights config --host=** *host* **[--port=** *port* **]** **[--use-http=** *(True | False)* **]**

``--host=host``

  Optional. Sets the host address for insights, the default address is ``console.redhat.com``.

``--port=port``

  Optional. Sets the port to use to connect to insights. The default is ``443``.

> ``--use-http=(True | False)``

Reviewer 4: Is this correct ?  In the CLI I thought it was a boolean in that, if not specified it's https, if specified it's http.  so just ``--use-http`` to True or False specified

Author: you are correct! I will correct this.

  ``qpc source add --name ansible_source --type ansible --hosts  10.0.205.205 --ssl-cert-verify false --cred ansible_cred``
Editing a source
  ``qpc source edit --name net_source --hosts 1.192.0.[0:255] --cred net_cred net_cred2``
Creating a scan
  ``qpc scan add --name net_scan --sources net_source net_source2``
Creating a scan that includes a list of products in the inspection
  ``qpc scan add --name net_scan2 --sources net_source --enabled-ext-product-search jboss_eap``
Editing a scan setting maximum concurrency
  ``qpc scan edit --name net_scan --max-concurrency 10``
Listing a scan filtering by scan type
  ``qpc scan list --type inspect``
Running a scan
  ``qpc scan start --name net_scan``
Canceling a scan
  ``qpc scan cancel --id 1``
Viewing scan jobs related to a specified scan
  ``qpc scan job --name net_scan``
Retrieves a JSON details report with no output file
  ``qpc report details --report 2  --json``
Retrieves a JSON details report
  ``qpc report details --report 2  --json --output-file path_to_your_file.json``
Retrieves a CSV deployments report
  ``qpc report deployments --report 2  --csv --output-file path_to_your_file.csv``

> Retrieves a JSON insights report with no output file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves a JSON Insights report with no output file
```

  ``qpc report insights --scan-job 1``
Retrieves a tar.gz insights report
  ``qpc report insights --scan-job 1 --output-file path_to_your_file.tar.gz``
Downloading a set of reports
  ``qpc report download --report 1 --output-file path_to_your_file.tar.gz``
Merging scan job results using ids
  ``qpc report report merge --job-ids 1 3``
Merging scan job results providing JSON files
  ``qpc report report merge --json-files path_to_report_1.json path_to_report_2.json``
Reprocessing a report
  ``qpc report upload --json-file path_to_report.json``

> Configuring insights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring Insights
```

  ``qpc insights config --host stage.console.redhat.com --port 8080``

> Adding insights credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding Insights credentials
```

  ``qpc insights add_login --username insights-user --password``

> Publishing to insights using a report id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishing to Insights using a report id
```

  ``qpc cred add --name=new_creds --type=network --username=qpc_user --sshkeyfile=/etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key``
Creating a new network type credential with a password
  ``qpc cred add --name=other_creds --type=network --username=qpc_user_pass --password``
Creating a new openshift type credential with a token

>   ``qpc cred add --name=other_creds2 --type=openshift --token``

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't we also have an example showing adding type=ansible here too ?

Author: we dont have examples showing vcenter and satellite, I felt the need to add one for openshift because it doesnt follow the same pattern of the others. Do you think I should add one for each @abellotti ?

Reviewer 4: It would not hurt to have examples for the others too. Thank you.

Reviewer 3: agreed

The Quipucords tool was originally written by Chris Hambridge <chambrid@redhat.com>, Kevan Holdaway <kholdawa@redhat.com>, Ashley Aiken <aaiken@redhat.com>, Cody Myers <cmyers@redhat.com>, and Cecilia Carter <cecarter@redhat.com>.

Copyright
---------

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer 2: we dropped headers from source code. manpage is a different beast.

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer: Earlier commits dropped the license info from source code file headers. Since the man page is user-facing, though, perhaps it needs to keep a copyright statement. I do not have _strong_ opinions here, but _I think_ I would err on the preference to keep it (and update the year… yikes!).

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a reason to not follow the same pattern.

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Author: Alright!

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer 3: The only problem (and we run into this in docs too) is to have people remember to update the copyright year when the year turns over. Is that something we can build in a reminder of? How many man pages are we updating, exactly?

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer 2: Mmmm we could have that automated 🤔 

What Y'all think about adding jinja or some other templating lang to this rst file?
rendering the proper markdown could be done before invoking pandoc to convert it to ascidoc.

Asking because this could also help with the upcoming story for "qpc/dsc" branding.

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer: Is the automation for this coming in a _future_ PR? I don't think we need to hold _this_ PR for automation. Just fix it manually for now and track the automation effort elsewhere later.

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Reviewer 4: 👍  adding jinja support and updating the rst for this bit in a separate PR.

> Copyright 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Author: yes automation is coming on separate pr

> The Quipucords tool was originally written by Chris Hambridge <chambrid@redhat.com>, Kevan Holdaway <kholdawa@redhat.com>, Ashley Aiken <aaiken@redhat.com>, Cody Myers <cmyers@redhat.com>, and Cecilia Carter <cecarter@redhat.com>.
> 
> It is currently being maintained by Bruno Ciconelle bciconel@redhat.com, Nicole Aragao naragao@redhat.com, Brad Smith brasmith@redhat.com, and Alberto Bellotti abellott@redhat.com.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quipucords is written and maintained by Red Hat. Please refer to the commit history for a full list list of contributors.```

Reviewer 2: futureproofing ftw
